# Prediction-of-Spot-Fuel-Prices-Using-R

In this project, we have developed prediction models of spot prices of fuels in the state of New York. This prediction model will prove beneficial for predicting gasoline and diesel prices according to price surges in crude oil barrels. The goal of this project is to apply several regression methods along with a forecasting method on the dataset and get the best model which will predict the prices of these fuels with highest accuracy. The dataset for used for making this project is taken from the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) which publishes a Weekly Transportation Fuels Report of average spot fuel prices for New York Harbor conventional gasoline and ultra-low sulfur diesel as well as West Texas Intermediate (WTI) and Europe Brent crude oil. 

As for data pre-processing the data set was checked for null values and new columns Month and Year were extracted from dates provided and added to the data set for using it for time series forecasting. Also, visualizations were created from the data set for checking out patterns and trends for further analysis. 

We have used various modeling techniques which are some of the significant machine learning methods. Initially after visualizations, simple linear regression was used for modeling gasoline and diesel through two different models. Then by choosing two parameters for each model, multiple linear regression was performed. This was followed by random forest regression. Along with the regression methods, we used time-series forecasting to predict the jet fuel prices.

At last, all the built models were analyzed using performance parameters such as RSME, MAPE, Min-Max Accuracy and errors and their residuals were plotted to evaluate the predictions made. In addition to evaluating prediction accuracy, K-Fold Cross Validation technique was applied to the regression models.

We were quite successful in predicting the prices of conventional fuels using the crude oil prices and found out that they were highly correlated in determining the prices. We believe that other factors like rapid world economic growth (demand and supply) or responses to conventional energy supplies or climate change or continuing conflicts in the Middle-East should also be taken into consideration. We recommend using these factors to predict the prices and further increase the diameter of the prediction of these conventional fuels.
